1-Martus

Description-
the Greek word for "witness," is a software tool that allows 
users to document incidents of abuse by creating bulletins, and storing them 
on redundant servers located around the world. Using Martus helps countries 
torn apart by civil conflicts come to a consensus and rational understanding 
of their histories, leading to reconciliation and reform processes.

Reasons-
I like this one because false information plagues our society regardless of 
relegious or political beliefs. an informatin database like this one is 
something that would be very difficult to keep unbiased but well worth the 
effort as human rights are one thing that should transcend any polotical or 
cultural struggles. and it would create a hub of people who have all been 
through the same attrocious experience and give abuse victims a steadfast 
place to turn to if they are being abused.


2-Sugar Labs	

Description-
Spin-off from OLPC (one laptop per child) that is doing software to create 
a learning environment for children. The award-winning Sugar Learning Platform 
promotes collaborative learning through Sugar Activities that encourage 
critical thinking, the heart of a quality education. Designed from the ground 
up especially for children, Sugar offers an alternative to traditional 
“office-desktop” software.

Reasons-
Sugar is an interactive learning environment developed by SugarLabs that aims to
 provide an accessible, fun learning environment for children around the world. 
While it can only run on Linux, Sugar nonetheless appears to be very accessible, 
able to be installed and used in a variety of ways (e.g “Sugar on a Stick” and 
Raspberry Pi). Obviously, we love the idea of software that is provided for free 
and can be used for social good. We recognize the importance of such software in 
creating equal oppopportunity and quality education and would love to contribute 
to its continued functionality and improvement.


3-Epidemiological Modeler(STEM)

Description-
A tool designed to help scientists and public 
health officials create and use spatial and temporal models of emerging infectious 
diseases. These models can aid in understanding and potentially preventing the 
spread of such diseases.

Reasons-
this Tool is extremely useful in the improvement of society, ensuring that our
population will be able to survive the next big pandemic/outbreak of a disease. After 
watching our society deal with covid it is clear software's like these are neccessary 
to ensure the long term survival of the human population. More than that this software 
also has applications of being preventitive if research. If research biologists are able 
to create new viruses and model/solve their problems to be able to deal witrh their 
side effects more effectively, then we might be able to entirely avoid the next pandemic.